Repeat is a construct that basically
intiali, initiates and infinite loop.
This is not a what I would characterize as
a commonly used control structure in R but
it does have its use occasionally.
So the only way to exit a repeat
loop is to call break, so
obviously you are going to have
to call break at some point,
unless you feel like running your program,
you know, forever.
So here is a pretty simple example, here
I am initializing a value of x 0 to be 1,
and I am saying what I think of as
a tolerance to be 10 to the minus 8, and
then I am going to repeat
the following structure.
Basically, I'm going to,
I imagine that some function that keep
computing estimate for x and
I'm going to call that x1.
And basically if,
if the new value of x that is x1,
is, is, if the absolute value
of the difference between x1 and
x0 is less than some tolerance,
in this case 10 to the minus 8,
then I'm going to stop the loop and
then move on to the next bit of code.
If, if the, if the difference
is greater than my tolerance,
then I set x0 to be
equal to the new value.
And then I, I run the loop again,
I calculate a new estimate and
I check to see if,
if the difference is small.
So, this is a common type of
formulation in in many types of
optimization algorithms, for
example, if you're trying to find
the solution to some set of equations, or
you're trying to maximize the function,
often you'll iterate over and over again.
And and you'll stop when the,
when the estimates that you're
calculating are getting closer and
closer together, because that's usually
a sign that you're kind of converging to
whatever the minimum or ma, or
maximum of the objective function is.
So this is a, in theory this is
a perfectly reasonable construction.
You want to keep recycling through the
algorithm until the two values are close.
So there's one problem which is that first
of all requires an algorithm that is
guaranteed to converge and not necessarily
every algorithm has that property.
Second of all, als, it doe, it, it does
depend a little bit on the tolerance of
the re, the loop will run longer if the
tolerance is smaller, generally speaking.
And because it's hard to predict
how how long this loop will run.
It can be a little bit dangerous
because it's a little bit
because it's unpredictable, it, it,
it could theoretically run forever, and
you have no gar, way to guarantee that
the program will stop at some point.
So this construct,
although it's theoretically
kind of the right thing to do
it's usually not a good idea.
It's better, probably be better
off to use a for loop that has a,
has a hard limit on the number of
iterations that it's allowed to run.
That way, if you have a problem with
your algorithm, it will eventually reach
the hard limit and stop and, and you will
know that the reason it stopped is because
it didn't converge and then maybe you can
try to fix something about the algorithm.
But with a repeat type of approach if your
algorithm is not converging you won't
have any warning it will just
be running a really long time.
The last control structure element
I want to talk about is next and
then there's also return.
Next is basically used in any
time of looping construct when
you want to skip an iteration.
So here I've got a basic four loop which
is going to run for 100 iterations.
And then but the idea is I want to
skip the first 20 iterations and then
only kind of execute some code when it's,
when it offer iterations 20 through 100.
So here I've got a basic,
I've got a very simple if condition.
So if i is less than or
equal to 20 I'm just going to skip, so
I hit, I use the next expression, and
it will skip everything else in the,
in the four loop and go and iterate again.
So once i gets beyond 20 then of course
the expression i let's less than or
equal to 20 will be false.
And so it won't execute the next, it will
go into whatever the body of the code for
the for loop is.
so, so next is another, is a way to
skip an iteration in, in a loop.
And of course break is a way to
execute the, exit the loop entirely.
The return function is,
is another function that can use the exit,
exit a loop and
it's primarily used to exit a function.
So it will, it will exit the entire
function and return a value
that you pass it, so we will talk more
about return when we talk about functions.
but, it's something that can break that it
can interrupt the flow of a program too.
So, that's control structures for
now so the basic summary is that
control structures like if, while and
for that can allow you to control
the flow of an R, of an R program.
Generally speaking while there
are construct, constructs that kind of
allow you to execute infinite loops you
generally want to be on the look out for
these kinds of things and
to avoid them if possible.
Even if they are kind of theoretically
correct because they can lead to
kind of some unpredictable
behavior in programs.
And the other key thing
I have mentioned yet
is the, the control measures that I've
mentioned here are primarily useful for
writing programs and
think I mentioned that in the beginning.
But for command line and interactive work
there are other types of looping type
functions that we can use, they
generally have the word apply in them.
And they can be a lot more useful for for
command line interactive work when you're
exploring data and things like that,
not writing programs although they can
be very useful in writing programs too.
So I'll talk about apply functions
except in a separate of videos.